I believe both of my functions are O(n^2) for time complexity. Memory usage for the recursive algorithm is O(n) (2 arrays of length n) which was made possible by extracting local variables to private static members, so that the next iteration didn't allocate more memory while the stale data hadn't been de allocated (or marked to be in the case of the garbage collector). My iterative approach is also O(n) memory (2 heap allocations each n length arrays, one of which is assigned to a static variable, and the other is referenced many times in as the first argument of each recursive call. ). The limitation of using recursion is that recursion is inherently slower and more dangerous. With large values of n it will take more stack memory, and it will have to keep calling itself, which involves copying arguments and passing them to the new function, all taking time. One of the downsides of my solution, is that it is extra slow, with all the crap i did just to see if i could. I learned about the instanceof keyword (probably not the intended learning opportunity) as well as autoboxing and unboxing, and the ClassCastException. I also learned how to minimize memory allocation using preallocation and static members to minimize stack usage and thus stack overflows. Something i still don't understand is the tab character \t as it seems to behave weirdly. Does it add single spaces up to the nearest multiple of four characters? Does it only behave this way in vscode terminal? is it a java thing? perhaps maybe a zsh thing?